

Cell-cycle dynamics of chromosomalorganization at single-cell resolution 


Chromosomes in proliferating metazoan cells undergo marked structural metamorphoses every cell cycle, alternating 
between highly condensed mitotic structures that facilitate chromosome segregation, and decondensed interphase 
structures that accommodate transcription, gene silencing and DNA replication. Here we use single-cell Hi-C (high-
resolution chromosome conformation capture) analysis to study chromosome conformations in thousands of individual 
cells, and discover a continuum of cis-interaction profiles that finely position individual cells along the cell cycle. We 
show that chromosomal compartments, topological-associated domains (TADs), contact insulation and long-range loops, 
all defined by bulk Hi-C maps, are governed by distinct cell-cycle dynamics. In particular, DNA replication correlates 
with a build-up of compartments and a reduction in TAD insulation, while loops are generally stable from G1 to S and 
G2 phase. Whole-genome three-dimensional structural models reveal a radial architecture of chromosomal compartments 
with distinct epigenomic signatures. Our single-cell data therefore allow re-interpretation of chromosome conformation 
maps through the prism of the cell cycle. 

As cells progress from mitosis to interphase and back again, their chromosomes 
undergo notable structural alterations that have intrigued 
microscopists for more than a century1. In preparation for mitosis and 
cell division, chromosomes are packaged into rod-like structures that 
are functionally inert. Upon mitotic exit, chromosomes rapidly decon-
dense into structures that allow regulated access to functional elements, 
enabling genome functions such as transcription, gene silencing 
and DNA replication. Although the structural and organizational 
principles of the interphase genome have been the subject of intense 
study, in particular using Hi-C2–10, genome-wide, high-resolution 
understanding of chromosome cell-cycle dynamics11 is still limited by 
current technologies. 

